---
layout: post
title: Unreasonable to fail
date: "2025-10-28 00:00:00 -0800"
categories: blog
---
One of my favorite quotes from Alex Hormozi,

I don't normally have time to listen to podcasts & influencers like I used to. But one thing that I always rememebr from Alex Hormozi, is this advice: "Figure out what you want. Ignore the opinions of others. And do so much that it would be unreasonable that you'd be unsuccessful."

That is a testimament to how I've lived most of my life. Although there have been times when it's been much harder to do certain aspects of it, such as ignoring the noise of others. Sometimes it's been harder to just put in the reps, but it's pretty much the only thing that's in your control, and I'm learning to come back to it as I become "older", or whatever that means :)

It has been interesting though that what I consider "high volume" work has had different definitions in different times of my life, and I've also noticed that different people define it differently based on their definition of what seems doable. When I was practicing competitive programming in high school, the fact that I solved +2000 problems on codeforces before enrolling in college was something that seemed almost impossible to other people. But guess what, it was probably impossible to me too if you asked me about it a year before it happened. But when it happened, it was just the new standard. If I could redo it, my target will probably be something like 5000 problems. That's just because I've seen what's possible when you do high volume work. You can talk about high quality all you want, but sometimes, it's just the volume that makes the difference. And don't get me wrong, some other folks might have other goals, metrics, and lower volume and higher quality work might get them better results compared to me. I'm not saying you should just work. I am, however, saying that most people underestimate the power of high volume work. Going back to the quote, there are certain volumes of work, where it would literally be unreasonable to fail.
